G2 Reference for Michael
=========================

The purpose of this is to aggregate various ideas, topics and best practices when creating G2 Applications or working with G2 itself.

What is G2?
-----------

G2 is an **intelligent real-time system (IRTS)** for developing and deploying mission-critical, client/server applications.

Three Key Factors
-----------------

It's useful to ask yourself these three questions when creating G2 applications.

1. Does my application have to **integrate with external data**?
2. Does my domain require **user interaction**, possibly somewhere on the network?
3. Does my environment have a **well-defined physical representation**?

If you answer yes to all three of these, you will be using a large portion of G2's capabilities.

Knowledge Base(s)
-----------------

G2 applications are stored in knowledge bases.  A **knowledge base** or **KB** is an ASCII file with a .kb extension that contains all the information your application needs to run.

Modules
-------

A G2 application typically consist of numerous KB files, each containing one or more modules.  A **module** is a set of related information contained in a KB.  

**TIP:** Use modules to organize your application and to also exercise the DRY principle.

Modules can either be **independent** or **dependent**.  This represents whether or not they require other modules to run.

You use the G2 Foundation Resource **(GFR)** module to help manage your modules in an application.  For example, which modules G2 initializes first and which modules determine the overall behavior of the application.

The figure below shows several different module configurations of a video conferencing application.

**<<insert figure AppLayout1>>**

G2 Objects
----------

G2 is an object-oriented development environment.  The *item* class is the root of the G2 class hierarchy that you can customize to capture your domain knowledge and *object* is a subclass in the item class hierarchy.

An **object** is a piece of information that contains all related knowledge in one location.  An object's data are called its **attributes** and an object's operations are called its **methods**.  Each object in the KB has an **icon** representation.  This means that you can use objects to communicate information graphically to the end-user.

Rules vs Procedures
--------------------

*add section describing the pros/cons*

Useful Hotkeys
--------------

**Admin**

Change User Mode: Ctrl + y





